COSC 311-601 Write Up
Ryan Rosiak and Grant Dawson

    The data that we are using is the San Francisco Crime Dataset. Each data
point is a separate incident or crime that was commited in the year 2016 in the
city of San Francisco. Some of the crime for that year could easily  have not
been accounted for, but we have a large 150000 row database to work with. This data was
collected and compiled from various police departments around San Francisco. There are
many classes within the data but none of them give away the data. Some of the classes 
are things like id number, incident, District, Category, time, date, and 
location. There are some key atrributes that can give us very valuable information, but
none of these completely give something away. If there is one, then the incident report
paired with the category of crime basically tells us everything we need to know
disregarding location. The San Francisco seems as if most of the data given were paramaters
for the underlying population in regards to the type of incident/category. The real question is
how deep are you willing to look. One big contributer is geological location which is
given either as an address or as an (X,Y) tuple location. This makes sense since certain neighborhoods or
certain areas of the city will be known for certain crimes compared to others. One block may be known
for drugs and another street cornier may be known for protittution and rich areas have issues with theft
and so on. If you are willing to looking into more of the data, most of the given attributes can be thought
of in a way taht wil affect what the crime will be. The day of the week is an indicator since jpeople work
during the day on week days, so we can expext most people wont be in their homes. This could indicate a higher rate
of theft crimes and break ins. Every attribute is necessary in coming up with these conclusions and can be manipulated
in many ways to get an anwser. Overall, we used K-Nearest Neighbors and a Neural Network. We are using the geological
location (X,Y) for KNN because it is a perfect pair. Although we can manipulate any data for the KNN, this 2d data
makes the most sense to use. For the neural net, we can use very diverse inputs so we can be more flexible about what
is being entered. For this reason, we are using the district, time of day, day of the week, and description in order
to let the neural net learn and make a more accurate prediction. All graphs and visualizations are provided in the 
various files. There is so much to pull out of this dataset.
